best freshman dorms?
what are the best freshman dorms?

also what floor is good on when picking a dorm.

also is greely good? some people are telling me its really good and other people are telling me its really bad.

I can tell you that freshman dorms are overall terrible and anyone saying otherwise has shown that Stony Brook can pull a wall over students' eyes. Greeley is in roosevelt quad. The only "good" rooms in roosevelt quads are the ones on the PH floor since they are usually singles with AC. Just assume you won't get those rooms since there's like 5 rooms on those floor. Roosevelt quad is considered one of the worst quads to live in. I've seen and personally had many problems with cockroaches in those dorms. However, I lived in Wagner (Roosevelt quad) in 2021 and switched into west apartments in sophomore year. It doesn't really matter what floor since none of them have AC and there are elevators. HOWEVER, just remember the closer you are to the ground, the less warm it will be in the summer (august/september). Every student can attest to how hot it gets in the beginning of the fall semester. Hope this information is useful to you! Welcome to SBU!!

All freshman dorms suck but east dorms are slightly better (as someone who lived on the west side of campus in freshman year). Nothing beats west apartments so hopefully you're able to get into that in junior year.

i lived in irving and kinda loved it. it got hot but not unbearable, i was close to the mailroom, close to east side dining, relatively close to classes, not a ton of bugs


O’Neil in mendehlson was pretty good. It had a decently large lounge, a gym, a kitchen, and a computer lab

Keller the only decent first year dorm(assuming ur not honors,scholars or wise student). I would tbh recommend any floor except the first one because usually that area floods FAST ASF.

I was in Greeley. Definitely not nice but better than I was expecting

irving!! made so many memories there 1st floor if you’re in C wing, A or B wing do 2nd floor


Irving, look up the floor plan and you can find a spot 10 seconds from east dining on the corner




Mendy is the closest to most class buildings and the dining hall, especially Irving. If you’re in the A wing of Irving like I was my freshman year you’re like a minute away from the dining hall which is really nice when the weather is bad or if you want to stop by for a snack. O’Neill has a gym in the basement which is nice. You can access it from the other buildings but it’s a little less convenient to get to. In Roosevelt quad, Wagner is the closest to the bus stop and the west side dining hall. ERC I believe has elevators which is nice while mendelsohn and H do not. H is basically exactly the same as Mendy but further away, so personally I wouldn’t go for that one. Roosevelt has the AC rooms as somebody else mentioned but those are extremely hard to get so I wouldn’t pick Roosevelt just for that expecting to get an AC room because you most likely will not (however if you need an AC for any medical reason you can just talk to sasc asap and they will work something out for you). At the end of the day tho I’d say wherever you end up none of them are really that bad, I’d just reccomend getting good powerful fans cause it can get really hot, even in the winter because they tend to put the heating up really high.


I say the east side dorms are a bit bigger than the west side one but I enjoy west side dinning a lot more than east side dining.




Then there's me who is a incoming freshman that landed a room in the penthouse floor of the greeley hall. The overall hall wasn't bad at all, idk why everyone say west is bad.




Depends what u want. Location wise I think east is better overall. West only good if you need to be closer to Engineering and it does have AC room in PH floor




