Eugene Stark 
3.1/ 5
52% Would take again
4.5 Level of Difficulty

reviews:
HWs can be difficult but if you're interested in the topic, it is definitely worth taking. Learned the most from this professor when I was at SBU.
The class itself isn't too hard. Just start the homeworks early. The exam are easy to get average on without studying, your main focus should be doing above average on homeworks
Start homeworks early or you will fail this class. This class teaches accountability more than anything. If you treat it like an intro course, you will suffer.
Stark is the best professor if you're taking it for sheer academic enthusiasm. If you're minding your grades, he's the devil. Don't stop reading the textbook until you understand EVERYTHING completely. Remember that every assignment he gives must start AT LEAST 14 days beforehand and spend AT LEAST 40 hours. Otherwise, you will see the hell.

Praveen Tripathi
2.4/5
38% Would take again
3.8 Level of Difficulty

reviews:
Get very comfortable with the material since the exams test understanding and applying the concept of a topic. He also focuses on very small obscure parts of the slides for tests and quizzes so you basically have to memorize all of the random small facts that are on the slides. Regardless everything you'll need is in the slides
That's a tough class. The "Michael Main" textbook stated in the syllabus, helped me a lot to understand his slides. The exam is mostly theoretical, and make sure to read and understand his lectures thoroughly. The exam will be tricky. Also, the professor cares about his students. Try to ask him questions during his office hours or after class.
run! Unless you want to fail
He has anger issues


Ahmad Esmaili
3.5/ 5
62% Would take again
3 Level of Difficulty

reviews:
esmaili for 214! he's awesome
214 Esmaili and 215 Ganapathi. Neither are lenient
He is a good professor. Make sure to attend all classes since there are pop quizzes worth about 6% of the grade, and missing them can hurt. The exams can feel harder than expected, but there is a significant curve at the end. I personally performed lower than I expected on exams, but the curve helped improve my final grade.
He's not great but he's not bad. I personally just didn't find the lectures to be very engaging and i felt I learned more out of class than in class. Overall the class is pretty fair. Just get ready to work hard for a good grade.
Professor is fair, exams are super hard so the curve will save you. He is very understanding and responsive. He is very stern about his policies but a good lecturer overall. Be aware of random pop quizzes.
All of his exams are really fair. He gives hints during lecture to what's going to be on the test, so definitely pay attention. Be authentic as well, and do your homework by yourself, and legitimately. He's extremely understanding and nice, so if you put your best foot forward he will also do the same and give you the best possible outcome.


Wong Ma
I took 220 with Professor Wong this past semester. No matter what you hear about her being tough, she is great at getting you to learn and is very down-to-earth. The curriculum between the two professors is the same so honestly you'll be fine with either, but from my personal experience I recommend Professor Wong. 220 is a time-intensive course so prepare to spend a significant amount of hours working on it. 

Both have the same tests, practice problems, dates, curriculum, homework, quizzes, everything (except for path diagrams, but that's later in the semester).

I recommend Wong over McDonnell because Wong, I think, is a better lecturer. But both are very good.

And if you can't wake up for 8am classes, you could take McDonnell.

220 is not as hard as people say, but you got to spend a decent amount of time on the practice problems to do well. The HWs was easier when I took it last semester than previous semesters (from what other students told me).

Your experience with CS professors
Personally, CS professors are hard but very resourceful and you will learn


Do not depend on a professor to teach you. Learn how to teach yourself. Every successful person in life has faced a moment where they just had to learn shit on their own and the sooner you develop this habit the better.