Fall New Student Housing Application 2026-2027 Information Important Dates
 

Students who do not complete the process by the deadline will not have university housing. This is a two semester commitment (Fall and Spring).
Application Available	
April 13 at 10 AM

New First Year & Transfer Deposit Deadline	May 1 at 11:59 PM
New Graduate Deposit Deadline 	May 15 at 11:59 PM
New First-Year, New Transfer, and International Exchange Application Deadline	June 10 at 4 PM
New Graduate Application Deadline	June 18 at 4 PM
Housing Deposit Information
There is a $200 housing deposit that students pay in SOLAR. Students participating in Educational Opportunity Program (EOP) do not need to pay a housing deposit.

Undergraduate housing deposits are due by 11:59 PM on May 1, and Graduate housing deposits are due by 11:59 PM on May 15.Deposits will not be accepted after these dates. If you miss the deadline, please join the university housing waitlist in the Housing Portal.

New first-year students receive university housing as long as they deposit for housing by May 1, meet all applicable housing deadlines, and complete all application steps.
New graduate students who submit their housing deposit by May 15 are prioritized for university housing on a space-available basis.
New transfer students may submit a housing deposit by May 1 to indicate their interest in university housing; however, they are not prioritized for on-campus housing. Spaces will be granted based on cancellations of other undergraduate students. If vacancies are available, students with a farther home address from campus are first among the transfer student population to receive consideration for housing.

Application information
The Fall New Student Housing Application will be available in the Housing Portal beginning April 13, 2026, at 10 AM.

All housing applications and related transactions are completed through the Housing Portal, which you can access using your NetID and password. Please note: You will not be able to log into your Housing Portal until the day after you set up your NetID and password with the university.

Students can complete general application information prior to their designated room selection time frame. Additional details can be found in the respective sections below. 

The application consists of the following components:

Agreeing to the Terms of Occupancy, financial liability and acknowledgments
GradGuard renter’s insurance information, meal plan information, and selection, as well as other campus partners' requirements
Questionnaire to help facilitate roommate matching
Self-selection of your room space, except for new graduates arriving earlier than August 1, Southampton Campus residents, Intensive English Center participants, International Academic Program participants, and new transfer students. Some first-years are not able to select their own space and will be administratively assigned as long as they complete their housing application in full.

New First-Year Student Information
Where will I live?

New first-year students are housed within one of our three first-year communities: H, Mendelsohn, or Roosevelt. Most students live in double-occupancy, corridor-style rooms, economy three-person rooms, or temporary triple rooms, with a limited number of single rooms available in Roosevelt Community.

Students part of specific groups are housed as follows:

WISE Honors participants are encouraged to live in Keller Hall within Eleanor Roosevelt Community.
University Scholars participants are encouraged to live in Greeley Hall within Eleanor Roosevelt Community.
Yardi Scholars participants are encouraged to live in Wagner Hall within Eleanor Roosevelt Community.
International Student Pre-Orientation participants live in Eleanor Roosevelt Community.
Honors College and Simons STEM Scholars participants live in Yang Hall.
Gender Inclusive Housing (GIH) participants are housed in Benedict South Hall in H Community (double rooms).
When can I select a room?

First-year students can begin selecting their room after their assigned room selection start time and must complete their selection by Wednesday, June 10, at 4 PM.

Selection Start Dates & Times:

Wednesday, May 20, at 10 AM: Honors College, University Scholars, Yardi Scholars, Simons STEM Scholars, WISE Honors, and International Student Pre-Orientation (ISPO) participants
Wednesday, May 27, at 10 AM: Students eligible to select female-designated spaces
Thursday, May 28, at 10 AM: Students eligible to select Gender Inclusive Housing (GIH) spaces
Friday, May 29, at 10 AM: Students eligible to select male-designated spaces
Your room selection day and time is the first opportunity to access the Housing Portal and make a selection. After that time has passed, you can enter the portal during our selection windows, between 10:00 AM - 9:59 PM, to select.

Due to high demand for university housing, there is a possibility that rooms may no longer be available for those that select closer to the application deadline. If this happens, please confirm in the housing portal your need of a housing assignment to complete your application. If you confirm a need for an assignment, rest assured that your application will still be considered complete, and you will receive a housing assignment at a later date. Your room will be assigned to you sometime prior to the start of the fall semester.

What spaces can I select?

First-year students will be able to select from our corridor-style housing first-year communities.

Gender Inclusive Housing participants can only select in Benedict South Hall. 
Scholars, WISE Honors, Yardi Scholars, and ISPO participants can only select spaces in Wagner, Keller, or Greeley Halls in Roosevelt Community.
Honors College and Simons STEM Scholars can only select in Yang Hall.
Once you select a space, your room assignment is final. If you are experiencing a roommate conflict before move-in, please contact your community's Area Office and Residence Hall Director for further assistance. If you experience a roommate conflict after moving in, you can contact your Resident Assistant for assistance. A room change and swap period starts the third week of the semester, but options may be limited.

When do I move into my space?
See the Move-In Website for more details on preparing to move in and arrival dates.

Can I request a single room?

There are a limited number of single rooms for first-year students in Roosevelt Community. Please discuss this option with anyone supporting you financially, as single-occupancy rooms come with an additional cost. During your application, you may select a single room if one is available. If none are available, then you will not be able to select a single.

How will I be able to select a roommate?

In the application:

You will answer questions about yourself and how you want your living environment.
You will be able to search for and communicate with other students who are applying.
You can create a group or join a group of two individuals, allowing either member to control your room assignment fully.  This is recommended for students who already know each other and are in close communication. If you give someone this control, your selection is final, even if they made the selection on your behalf.
You are not required to select a room with another student. You can still make your selection as an individual, and any vacant beds in your room will be available for other students to select.

New Transfer Student Information
Is housing available for transfer students?

All new transfer students can place a housing deposit by May 1 to indicate their interest in on-campus housing; however, they are not prioritized for on-campus housing. Spaces will be granted based on cancellations of other undergraduate students. Students with a farther home address from campus will have priority for housing.

When will I know if I have housing?

All new transfer students who submit a housing application by Wednesday, June 10, will receive an update by Wednesday, July 1, regarding their likelihood of receiving an on-campus assignment. Should space become available, most housing assignments will be finalized by Friday, July 24.

While completing the housing application, we strongly encourage students to simultaneously explore off-campus housing options. The Office of Commuter Student Services and Off-Campus Living offers helpful resources that may support your search.

Can I select my roommate or room type?

New transfer students are housed in continuing undergraduate residence halls where space is available by administrative assignment, which does not permit roommate or room type selections.

When do I move into my space?

See the Move-In Website for more details on preparing to move in and arrival dates.

First-Year Housing
Welcome to Stony Brook University! Our residential communities are designed to foster strong connections and enhance engagement for our first-year residents, providing ample opportunities for meaningful interactions. Students are housed in our three corridor-style communities: Eleanor Roosevelt Community, H Community, and Mendelsohn Community. Our priority is to house all new first-year students who want to live on campus and meet all deposit and application deadlines. Demand may exceed available spaces, and we will implement these strategies to best support as many students with housing.

WISE Honors students are encouraged to live in Keller Hall, University Scholars in Greeley Hall, and Yardi Scholars in Wagner Hall, all within Eleanor Roosevelt Community.
Simons STEM Scholars program participants are housed in Yang Hall, a suite-style building, as part of our Living Learning Community.
Honors College program participants are housed in Yang Hall, a suite-style building, as part of our Living Learning Community, and on the fourth floor of Wagner Hall in the Eleanor Roosevelt Community.

Eleanor Roosevelt Community 
These are corridor style, primarily double rooms with limited design three-person rooms and single rooms. These include: Keller Hall, Greeley Hall, and Wagner Hall. Home of  University Scholars, Yardi Scholars, and WISE programs.

Mendelsohn Community 
Corridor style, double rooms. These include:  Irving Hall O'Neill Hall, and Ammann Hall. 

H Community
Corridor style, double rooms. These include: Benedict South Hall, Langmuir Hall, and James Hall. 

Yang Hall 
Living Learning Community suite style, double rooms. Home of the Honors College and Simons STEM Scholars Programs.


Room Style Details: Corridor Style
Generally houses two residents.
Shared bathroom for the entire floor and is cleaned daily.
Rooms are furnished with two beds, dressers, desks, and closets. Rooms are generally 180 square feet in size.
Each floor has a public lounge for students to socialize and relax in.
No air conditioning in bedrooms except on the fourth floor of Roosevelt Community
General room layout can be found here.
Suite Style
Houses between four to six residents.
Shared bathroom for the suite and cleaned weekly.
Each suite has a private living room area that contains two sofas and a table.
Double occupancy rooms are furnished with two beds, dressers, desks, and closets. Rooms are generally 130-165 square feet in size.
Single Occupancy rooms in Chávez and Tubman are furnished with one bed, dresser, desk, and closet. Rooms are generally 110 square feet in size.
To accommodate the suite bathroom and private living area bedrooms are smaller in suite-style housing.
Air conditioning in Living Learning Community suites.
General suite layout can be found here.
For information about housing rates, please visit the Rates and Fees Page. If you need to contact your area office or building staff, see our contact information. If you choose to live with us beyond your first year, see our expanded housing options for continuing students.

Economy ROOMS
Economy rooms are a designed room type and are not a temporary configuration.
Each economy room resident has their own desk and wardrobe or closet space.
Lofted and bunked beds are permanent and cannot be changed.
Two-person economy rooms have both beds lofted.
Three-person economy rooms have one bed lofted and the other two beds bunked. 
Economy three-person rooms are not the same as temporary triple rooms. Furniture such as desks, wardrobes and dressers are smaller in these rooms than in non-economy rooms.
Due to the room configuration and furniture, these rooms are at an economy rate compared to our traditional double or three-person rooms. Residents are eligible to request a room change or swap during designated periods that all students besides those in temporary triples can participate in.
Additional Housing Options: Gender Inclusive Housing 
Gender Inclusive Housing (GIH) is a housing option in which two or more students share a bedroom, suite and/or apartment regardless of the students' sex, gender identity or gender expression. In other words, this option allows for students of any gender identity to live together regardless of sex assigned at birth.

Gender Inclusive Housing is not recommended or intended for: living with significant others, only specific people, and/or to get to a specific location within housing. Choosing to live in GIH is an agreement for the whole year, and you will not be permitted to room change to a non-GIH space after being approved. Similarly, if you do not choose to live in GIH for the upcoming year, you will only be able to choose rooms based on the gender identity listed on your student record. Approximately 1.25% of new first-year students participate in Gender Inclusive Housing, representing about 35 bedspaces in two communities. Appeals to leave or join GIH mid-year can be made in the housing portal. If you are interested, you will need to review and agree to all items below in your housing application before being approved for Gender Inclusive Housing.

I understand choosing to live in Gender Inclusive Housing means I will have roommates and/or suitemates of any gender identities.
I understand that the only options I will have access to are gender inclusive spaces, and that I am committed to living in GIH for the academic year.   
I understand that only people who have been approved for the Gender Inclusive Housing environment will be allowed to move into my space.   
I understand that if I live in GIH with the plan to live with a specific person, and that person leaves the space, that the room will be filled by only individuals who are GIH approved.   
I affirm and feel comfortable living with LGBTQ* people, specifically trans and non-binary people.   
I understand my role in creating and affirming a bias free environment for everyone living in this community.  
For more information, please contact:

Campus Residences at (631) 632-6750 or at reside@stonybrook.edu.

LGBTQ* Services  at (631) 632-2941 or at lgbtqservices@stonybrook.edu