Ljudmila Kamenova
3.3/ 5
2.6 Level of Difficulty
50% Would take again
reviews:

wouldn't recommend her
Prof. Kamenova is a great professor. She lectures very clearly from the book, and presents the material almost verbatim. It's actually quite nice. Her homeworks and tests are easy (e.g. every single person in MAT 315 got an A, and I think over half the class perfected the final). Overall, Prof. Kamenova is awesome; take her classes if you can.
Professor Kamenova was extremely fair with her expectations of students. She has a soft voice, but if you sit near the front and are paying attention you will be 100% fine. Tests are almost exact to the review sheets. I hadnt taken precalc since highschool (5 years ago) / not a stem major, and even I was able to get an A-. Take precalc with her!
she has not catered students in need well and she had a mean attitude. we usually just discuss problems by ourselves and finish homeworks. don't advise to take her class.



William Bernhard
4.6/ 5
90% Would take again
2.6 Level of Difficulty

reviews:

Best professor to take AMS 151 
Everyone loves him and I know why, he's great BUT I just cannot learn the way he teaches like he doesn't really explain well and math doesn't come naturally to me, also sometimes he changes slides way too fast and I'm slow bro. Also the way the tests are set up are so ridiculous like its actually funny. Hes a good professor tho!!
best professor ever. no other explanation needed.
Class is difficult; however, as long as you attend his lectures and do his homework, you will do just fine. He is the most passionate professor in this university compared to other professors.


David Khan

4.5/ 5
88% Would take again
2.3 Level of Difficulty

reviews: 

MAT125- Kahn is the best don’t take anyone else
great prof, first time i actually understood math. great attention to detail when explaining how to solve problems, best if you asked questions during class so he can help right away. easy to contact through email.
David kahn is an amazing professor. Knows his stuff. Keeps it straightforward and simple. If you fail his class its YOUR fault. He's the GOAT
Absurd how high his rating is. To his character, he self-obsessed, short tempered, and weird toward female students. He is weirdly flirty and gives special attention to attractive freshman (weird), and he is NOT friendly toward accommodating neurodivergent students. Spent more time ranting about his accomplishments than helping students. Boo.