Fall 2024 Parking Changes
Check your emails, MAPS dropped their new parking changes. TL:DR: South P is still free but residents can park there now as well. There’s now two Commuter Premium tiers and residents now have to pay to park in their zone (or go to South P for free). Hang tags will be phased out and enforcement hours are unchanged.

Dear Students, As part of MAPS' ongoing efforts to address increased demand and enhance the technology & infrastructure of parking services on campus, we will be implementing a tiered parking model for students for the 2024-2025 academic year. Beginning Fall 2024, we will introduce a new lower-rate commuter permit and implement two parking tiers for residential permits. These changes are a necessary step as we begin the crucial repair and maintenance needs for student parking.

Commuter Student Permits

Based on feedback from students, a common concern centered around the ability to find Commuter Premium parking. Although space has always been available in Lot 5, it is clear there is higher demand for Lots 2, 3 and 6. As a result, and to address student concerns, we will have the following options available starting Fall 2024:

Permit Type Rate Designated Parking Areas

Commuter Core $135/semester (fall and spring) $90/semester (summer) Student spaces in Lots 2, 3 and 6 (also access to Commuter Perimeter spaces)

Commuter Perimeter $90/semester (fall and spring) $60/semester (summer) Student spaces in Lot 5 (also access to Commuter Satellite spaces)

Commuter Satellite No charge Lot 40

Residential Student Permits

Residential parking permit details are below. There will be no changes to the parking eligibility requirements and waiver processes. Permit Rate Designated Parking Area

Residential Core $90/semester (fall and spring) $60/semester (summer) Assigned Residential Zone

Residential Satellite No charge Lot 40**

**Please note, SBU Transit does not operate 24/7. Please review the SBU Transit schedule for details. Discounted Permits

Feedback has also highlighted a concern for student affordability. To provide support for these concerns, 10% of the Commuter Core permits will be allocated at the Commuter Perimeter price and 10% of the Commuter and Residential Perimeter permits will be allocated at no charge. Eligibility requirements are under review and will be communicated to students before the end of the Spring 2024 semester. General Information

Enforcement hours will remain the same for Fall 2024. Metered spaces are enforced 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. and West campus lots are enforced 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. The metered spaces in Lot 5 will remain at a $5/day flat rate. MAPS will be implementing a new parking management system in Spring 2024. This system will utilize virtual permits instead of physical hang tags. More information on this will be sent as implementation is finalized. For Frequently Asked Questions about this plan, please visit "Student Parking Permit Changes."