Dorms to Avoid?

Hey everybody, incoming spring transfer student trying to 
work out on campus housing. My former college had some 
communities that were infamously horrible and I'm wondering 
if SB has something like "The Building With 
The Notorious 20-Year Cockroach Infestation" that 
I should be wary of.



Honestly people love West but just be aware that west has an issue with mold, the buildings were not built for this kind of weather.

Yeah, one of my friends currently has mold in her suite

If you wanna bump into a lot of people, bubbling with each other everytime then you should go to East If you wanna have less people around you, but better bonding, you should go to West

I had a single in Keller before and it wasn’t so bad. I had a few flies come in from keeping my door open and saw a roach down by the laundary room once but that was it. The biggest issue I had has the girls on my floor not wiping their period blood off the seats the first couple weeks

Saw three big roaches so far near the laundry room, none in the actual suite though. Guess they like clean clothes and dust

I heard keller and greenly are the worst

Comment deleted by user

boooooo H is not bad.

H community has some wild bathroom scenes. Also remembered a drain fly infestation at one point where a bunch just dies on the ceiling and a couple living ones roaming in the showers

Also got a house centipede, wonder where that fella went to

Crazy cos I’m in ERC as an honor student, I expected it to be wonderful but it is not all that lmao


ERC (Eleanor Roosevelt community) has that reputation overall.

runner-ups include the west apartments (mold, rowdiness, and far from everything), Tabler quad (ongoing construction, far from everything), and Kelly quad (I think the reason why it doesn't have a rep is bc people forget it exists. everyone I know who dormed there hated it, I can ask them for details if you want)


i’d say tabler. way far and annoying to get to/from. parking sucks and they have construction going on rn.


ERC, and that’s ab it

Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter
Your options will be the dorms no one likes so

All of them

Tabler low key the best spot people sleep on. Our friends were talking with RAs about how Tabler has parking so when you move in and move out you don’t have to worry about carrying your stuff far, mailroom over at Roth, plus Starbucks and other places like subway, burger, and Popeyes. Also much quieter. Yes a little more walking distance but I’ve enjoyed my stay


